content/portfolio/2019-12-07-dvims-inventory-management.md, before:

---
layout: portfolio-item
title: DVIMS
date: 2019-12-07T12:45:39.485Z
order: 3
thumbnail: /img/dvims-mockup.jpg
livesite-bool: false
livesite: "http://google.com/"
tech-stack:
  - Node.js
  - Express
  - Mustache
  - PostgreSQL
  - JavaScript
  - SCSS
repo-bool: false
repo: "http://google.com/"
description: >-
  This project was built for Diamond Vapor's E-liquid manufacturing facility.
  Hundreds of food flavorings being used in different products caused a huge
  headache for inventory management. DVIMS (Diamond Vapor Inventory Management
  System) was designed to allow employees to easily and accurately track their
  stock and notify management as to when things need to be ordered, avoiding
  hiccups in the manufacturing process.
---

To be added later.

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Suspendisse placerat velit eget imperdiet suscipit. Mauris eleifend maximus ligula, molestie condimentum neque tincidunt a. Ut libero mi, fringilla sed ante non, efficitur imperdiet quam. Maecenas iaculis rhoncus nibh ac dapibus. Quisque vehicula risus sed ligula mattis molestie. Cras luctus metus non ultricies laoreet. Aenean cursus, lacus id ultricies accumsan, urna tellus varius enim, feugiat feugiat diam nulla condimentum magna. Pellentesque bibendum leo sit amet tortor blandit pulvinar. Pellentesque sed ultrices leo. Phasellus ut lorem non ligula laoreet rhoncus sed sed purus. Integer augue felis, aliquet quis finibus at, rutrum finibus ex. Pellentesque dapibus elit ut augue tempor suscipit. Integer tincidunt neque ut pulvinar fermentum.

Ut fringilla pretium vehicula. Suspendisse eget tempus velit. In metus mi, ullamcorper eget ligula a, convallis vestibulum orci. Cras vel ante malesuada, malesuada nisl non, placerat leo. Phasellus tempus tempus nibh ullamcorper tincidunt. Proin vel metus vitae nulla suscipit malesuada. Vivamus vel euismod libero, eget lacinia urna. Sed in quam augue. Ut eu neque et sapien accumsan elementum vitae eu nulla. Ut ullamcorper rhoncus justo ac dictum. Pellentesque non ipsum tempus, vulputate dui eget, rutrum ligula. Suspendisse dapibus lacus nunc, id aliquet nisl pulvinar non. Nunc feugiat sagittis lorem et interdum. Morbi ac vulputate augue. Duis sit amet nibh dolor.

Nullam interdum tellus nec quam congue maximus. Nunc tellus leo, porttitor vel molestie eu, semper eu risus. Etiam sapien ligula, viverra vel feugiat vitae, faucibus nec justo. Suspendisse in dolor eget ex luctus consequat eget non risus. Praesent facilisis diam id velit hendrerit, at sollicitudin purus viverra. Duis egestas enim sed ornare tristique. Sed elit orci, consequat vel purus in, placerat tristique ipsum. Morbi pretium ornare augue et auctor. Duis diam orci, malesuada ut pretium eu, facilisis at ligula. Morbi tincidunt risus tellus, sit amet aliquet purus posuere quis. Nunc elementum rhoncus fermentum. Nunc ultrices tellus leo, ut suscipit orci interdum id. In hac habitasse platea dictumst. Praesent ut ligula tempus, ornare sem ac, tempus ligula.

Nunc pellentesque turpis sem, ut fermentum turpis ultricies ut. Fusce facilisis imperdiet leo, nec aliquam eros tristique quis. Sed nunc purus, elementum id sollicitudin nec, tincidunt dictum mauris. Curabitur eget nisl vestibulum, pretium sem id, sagittis urna. Quisque risus lorem, fringilla nec porta vitae, finibus quis diam. Integer blandit, turpis non imperdiet ultricies, lorem enim ullamcorper mi, ut aliquam leo ipsum a libero. Fusce sit amet maximus velit. Duis quis enim sagittis, consequat felis a, vulputate ligula. In eget risus nibh. Integer porttitor turpis non nisl varius sollicitudin. Pellentesque interdum lectus maximus, feugiat odio sit amet, volutpat sapien. Donec arcu nulla, aliquam eu nulla ac, elementum vehicula velit. Donec lobortis odio at nibh lobortis fringilla.

Nam sollicitudin vestibulum malesuada. Cras a libero quis risus consectetur pellentesque ut in tellus. Phasellus commodo vitae quam eget lobortis. Curabitur vitae pulvinar lorem. Mauris sit amet dictum est, ultrices consectetur sem. Integer sagittis felis sed dictum molestie. Aliquam erat volutpat. Nam a fringilla ipsum, quis dignissim purus. Etiam ac est cursus, ullamcorper purus a, ullamcorper massa.

Commit message:

Updated DVIMS and HMAS project descriptions

content/portfolio/2019-12-07-dvims-inventory-management.md, after:

---
layout: portfolio-item
title: DVIMS
date: 2019-12-07T12:45:39.485Z
order: 3
thumbnail: /img/dvims-mockup.jpg
livesite-bool: false
livesite: "http://google.com/"
tech-stack:
  - Node.js
  - Express
  - Mustache
  - PostgreSQL
  - JavaScript
  - SCSS
repo-bool: false
repo: "http://google.com/"
description: >-
  This project was built for Diamond Vapor's E-liquid manufacturing facility.
  Hundreds of food flavorings being used in different products caused a huge
  headache for inventory management. DVIMS (Diamond Vapor Inventory Management
  System) was designed to allow employees to easily and accurately track their
  stock and notify management as to when things need to be ordered, avoiding
  hiccups in the manufacturing process.
---

While working for Diamond Vapor in Hollywood, FL, I was given the task of creating a solution for their inventory problem.

The minimum viable product was to be finished quickly and with this requirement, visual design was not a focus at all.

This was my first Node.js project and before beginning this project, I had never written a line of backend JavaScript, nor had I done much with frontend JavaScript. I highlight these points because, I believe it shows my ability to learn quickly and provide results. The minimum viable product was finished in 10 days and ongoing development consisted mostly of only new features.

### The Solution

With hundreds of 1 gallon jugs of flavoring and everything being used during the manufacturing process in very unpredictable rates, it was nearly impossible for employees to indicate what needed to be ordered and to have it arrive on time before needing it. It was a near weekly occurrence of halting orders to await for flavorings to be delivered.

To solve this problem, I created an SQL database, containing each product, their minimum stock requirement before more needed to be ordered, SKU, assigned storage locations, other data and current stock.

The next concern was that they are an extremely busy facility. Employees don't have time to run to the computer every time they use inventory, nor do they have time to go to the website and manually search for the product in question. The solution for that was to create a QR code system. The usage of that system was that when products were delivered, we had an automatically generated database of QR codes associated to each product that could be rapidly printed on a label machine and stuck on to each product. Then, employees could simply scan the QR code on the product when they went to use it and press 2 buttons to indicate that the product had been used. This created a seamless implementation, only taking seconds out of their day to accurately track each product's stock level.

Within the desktop based admin dashboard, they would receive notifications each time a product fell below it's minimum quantity of stock required. With a bit of experimentation, this quickly changed ordering from frantic rush orders, sometimes multiple times a week to simply checking the low stock notifications once a week, placing an order and patiently waiting for those products to arrive, and never delaying production.

### Technical aspects

The backend consisted of Node.js, with express, using Mustache to server side render the pages. PostgreSQL was used to store all of the data. The project contained session based authentication, admin/manager roles and employee roles. I went a bit overkill with deployment and for my first backend project, there were definitely easier alternatives. It was extremely fulfilling though, as I configured a Digital Ocean droplet with CentOS to pull updates from Github, setup pm2 monitoring, NGINX, and automatic Postgres backups from scratch.

### Past Version 1

Everything mentioned above was completed for the first version of the project. Going forward, usability was improved, adjustments more advanced stock ordering features were implemented, the ability to track product usage over time, and tools for being used during the manufacturing process.
